---
title: "Layoff"
author: Joseph McGuire
date: 2024-11-09
header_image: /assets/images/bishop-peak.png
katex: true
---
# Layoffs
**Author**: Joseph McGuire  

Yesterday, I was laid off. It's not an ideal situation, but it's a reality many of us face. I was let go due to budget cuts. Decisions outside my control led to the cancellation of a government program, which had a cascading effect on my company, ultimately resulting in my position being cut.

Despite this, I want to express how incredible the journey has been. We were developing truly innovative technologies, and I am proud of what we achieved.

This experience has reminded me of an important lesson: you are always replaceable. Your job should never come at the expense of the rest of your life. While it's essential to put food on the table and keep a roof over your head, it's crucial to remember why employers hire us: to drive profit margins and grow the business. Even when we excel in our roles, employment is never guaranteed.

The at-will employment structure, prevalent throughout the United States, means job security is often out of our hands. Going above and beyond can yield short-term benefits such as recognition, promotions, and raises. However, in the long run, employers will act in their own self-interest, and we should do the same.

Don't push yourself to the breaking point for your job. Work diligently and with excellence, but take care of yourself. Your job is not your savior; your well-being should always come first.